This project was created and designed by Team 32 of Utrecht Universitys Deep Learning Course. 



It includes both the Forward Lateral Causal Model and the Ensemble Model. The ensemble model is inside the zip file. 




To run the code, first create a venv environment called "venvv."




Download the requirements.txt into the environment.




Then run python main.py.




This will provide you 3 options which are: (1), (2), and (q).




1. Runs the hyperparameter tuning to determine the best parameter for the data. This code doesn't use Xtest.mat. It splits the X_train at the last 200 points and uses that as the validation set. The hyperparameter range can be adjusted in the def objective function definition inside hyperparameter tuning. py.




2. Using the best hyperparameter generated by (1) automatically trains on the full Xtrain.mat and evaluates on Xtest.mat.




3. (q) Quits the program.




Evaluation:

The model is evaluated using recursive 200-step forecasting. After predicting one step, the prediction is inserted back into the input window and used to predict the next step.

MAE

MSE

RMSE

R^2




Hardware

The code automatically detects available hardware:

macOS Apple Silicon: MPS

Windows/Linux NVIDIA GPU: CUDA

Otherwise: CPU


Project 
DeepLearning_project/
├── main.py
├── hyperpram_tuning.py
├── single_run.py
├── Xtrain.mat
├── Xtest.mat
├── Forward_Lateral_Causal_CNN.py
├── data_loader.py
├── eval.py
├── plot.py
├── train_single_model.py
├── util.py
├── requirements.txt
└── best_optuna_config_recursive_200.json
└── reports
└──└──full_xtrain_optuna_xtest_earlystop_recursive_SWA_best_results (Has the best results on XTest)
└── optuna_trial_historeis_recursive_200 (Hyperpram Trials including score and pram)